From doers003 at umn.edu  Thu Sep  6 10:56:56 2007
From: doers003 at umn.edu (Katja Doerschner)
Date: Thu Sep  6 11:58:22 2007
Subject: [HDRI] 2007 Intl. Radiance Workshop Abstract Submission Deadline
	coming up
Message-ID: <B7A5A761-D0FF-49C2-85D0-48B14514C525@umn.edu>

Radiance 2007 Scientific Workshop
01-02 (Mon-Tues) October, Digital Technology Center, University of  
Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.


Dear All,


This is a friendly reminder that the abstract submission deadline for  
the Radiance workshop - September 12 - is coming up soon.

Please submit your abstracts at:
http://www.dtc.umn.edu/cgi-bin/seminars/symposia/radiance.php? 
menu=abstract

Thank you!

Katja

Katja Doerschner
University of Minnesota
Psychology Department
218 Elliott Hall
75 East River Road
Minneapolis, MN 55455-0344
Phone:+1 612 626-8551
http://vision.psych.umn.edu/~doerschner



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: http://radiance-online.org/pipermail/hdri/attachments/20070906/05b9cbc2/attachment.htm
From doers003 at umn.edu  Thu Sep 20 17:41:10 2007
From: doers003 at umn.edu (Katja Doerschner)
Date: Thu Sep 20 17:57:24 2007
Subject: [HDRI] Radiance 2007 Scientific Workshop - SCHEDULE
Message-ID: <CFDEBECD-FDDD-4FAD-89B2-B7E97B1C731B@umn.edu>

Radiance 2007 Scientific Workshop - SCHEDULE
01-02 (Mon-Tues) October 2007, Digital Technology Center, University  
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.


Dear All,

Here is the tentative schedule for this year's Radiance workshop.  
Tomorrow you will also be able to view it online at http:// 
www.dtc.umn.edu/cgi-bin/seminars/symposia/radiance.php.

In general, we will have presentations (talks) in the mornings and  
tutorial sections in the afternoons.

If you haven't registered yet, please try to do so sooner rather than  
later, as it will help us to get a proper head count for the tour,  
reception and banquet.

See below what you can look forward to/ what you are missing out on  
(if you don't attend!).

Looking forward to see you at the workshop!

Greg,
& Katja


MEETING SCHEDULE
----
October 1:

8:30-9:30 Meet & Greet / Coffee

9:30-9:45 Greg Ward & Katja Doerschner,  Introduction	

9:45-10:25
Roland Fleming, Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics,  
Tuebingen, Germany

?Visual Perception of Surface Material?
Different materials such as silk, bronze and marmalade have  
distinctive visual appearances.  Human observers are remarkably adept  
at recognizing materials across a wide range of viewing conditions  
and we are only just beginning to work out how.  What gives a  
material its characteristic ?look??  What cues does the visual system  
use to identify materials?  How can we leverage the assumptions made  
by the visual system to improve computer graphics?  I will review  
some of our research on the perception of material properties such as  
gloss, translucency and refractive index that attempts to shed some  
light on these questions.  I?ll talk about how illumination and 3D  
geometry interact with material perception, and discuss the role of  
various image statistics (e.g. intensity histogram, amplitude  
spectrum) in the visual estimation of material attributes.  I?ll then  
show one application in which we exploit the heuristics made by the  
visual system to enable illusory modifications of material appearance  
in photographs.

10.30-10.50 Coffee Break

10:50-11:20
Yu Sheng, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY	

"Comparing an interactive hybrid global illumination method with  
Radiance"
Complex fenestration systems (CFS) can be used to redirect intense  
illumination from the sun to more evenly illuminate an architectural  
space and thus reduce the lighting needs of buildings. However,  
standard distribution of Radiance does not support rendering of CFS  
or arbitrary BRDF/BTDF material data. In this talk, we present an  
interactive rendering system for architectural design which simulates  
a CFS based on 4D Bidirectional Transmission Distribution Function  
(BTDF) data. We use a hybrid method of shadow volumes for direct  
illumination and radiosity for indirect illumination to achieve  
interactive rendering rates.
Our system is appropriate for use in schematic design: an early stage  
of the architectural design process where scale, appearance, and  
adjacencies of an evolving design are explored. We demonstrate our  
system on several models inspired by field observations and the  
designs of architecture students we have consulted during the  
development of this project.

11:20-11:50
Bei Xiao, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA
	
?Effect of test patch location on color appearance, in the context of  
3D objects?
Bei Xiao (1) and David Brainard (2)
(1) Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, University of  
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (2) Department of  
Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

The light reflected from different locations on a single object can  
vary enormously.  This variation is enhanced when the material  
properties of the object are changed from matte to glossy.  Yet  
humans have no trouble perceiving an object as having a unified  
color.  We conducted a psychophysical experiment to study how people  
perceive the color of different parts of an object.  Observers viewed  
graphics simulations of a three-dimensional scene containing two  
objects, test and match (generated with Radiance in conjunction with  
custom software that provided full spectral rendering).  The test  
object was a soccer ball that had one colored hexagonal face (test  
patch).  Observers were asked to adjust the color appearance of a  
match sphere to the test patch.  The match sphere was always matte,  
while we varied the surface gloss of the entire soccer ball  
(including the test patch).  The test patch could be located at  
either an upper or lower location on the soccer ball.  The data show  
that there is an effect of test patch location on observers? color  
matching, but this effect is small compared to the physical change in  
the average light reflected from the test patch across the two  
locations.  In addition, we found that observers exhibit stability of  
color perception of the test patch in the face of variation of  
surface gloss.

12:00-1:30 Lunch	

1:30 -2:30
Gary Meyer, Victoria Interrante, University of Minnesota, Department  
of Computer Science
Digital Design Consortium and VR lab tour/demos

2:30-3:15
Greg Ward, Anyhere Software, Albany, CA

Tutorial: ?Image-based Lighting?
Image-based lighting (IBL) is a set of techniques originated by Paul  
Debevec for incorporating synthetic objects into real-world scenery  
<www.debevec.org>.  IBL is widely used by the movie industry for  
special effects production, and offers some interesting possibilities  
for daylight simulation as well.  In this tutorial, Greg will  
demonstrate how easy it is to capture a high dynamic-range  
environment map (a.k.a. a "light probe") using a standard digital  
camera and use it to render synthetic objects into a background plate  
with the help of Photosphere and the "mksource" program.  We will  
discuss how other researchers, such as Santiago Torres, have employed  
IBL and Radiance for daylighting simulation.
		
3.15-3:30 Coffee Break

3:30-4:00
Zack Rogers, Architectural  Energy Corporation, Boulder, CO

Tutorial: ?Sensor Placement + Optimization Tool (SPOT) Update?
Zack Rogers, Jennifer Scheib, Architectural Energy Corporation

This talk will present recent updates to the Sensor Placement +  
Optimization Tool software that acts as a front-end interface to  
Radiance. SPOT has grown to provide more detailed electric lighting  
and annual daylighting analysis as well as providing photosensor  
control analysis. The focus of the presentation will be on the new  
features of the software and a case study will be presented of a  
project in which we used SPOT to help design a daylight responsive  
control system. The talk will be 25 minutes followed by a question  
and answer period.

6:30-7.30 Reception

7.30-10:30 Banquet

----

October 2:

9:00-10:00
Zack Rogers, Architectural  Energy Corporation, Boulder, CO

?Experiences with Radiance in Daylighting Design, Part III?
Zack Rogers, Galen Burrell and Jennifer Scheib, Architectural Energy  
Corporation

This talk will present some of the Radiance modeling Architectural  
Energy Corporation has done in support of our Daylighting Design  
Consulting work, focusing on the various ways we have used Radiance  
to guide the design process.
Radiance has proved to be extremely effective in analyzing and  
visualizing daylighting designs, allowing numerous daylighting design  
alternatives to be explored beforehand, informing and guiding the  
daylighting design decisions of a project.  The types of daylighting  
design projects that will be highlighted vary widely and include  
schools, laboratories, offices, museums, atriums, and others.  The  
focus of the presentation will be on new work that has occurred since  
the Montreal radiance conference in 2005.

The talk will be broken into three-20 minute sections, one section  
given by each of the presenters followed by a brief question and  
answer period.

10:00-10:25 Coffee break

10:25-10:50
Greg Ward, Anyhere Software, Albany, CA

?Utilizing BTDF Window Data?
This talk presents some new ideas and software for exploiting  
measured and simulated bidirectional transmittance distribution  
function (BTDF) data in Radiance.  Programs and standards for  
providing BTDF data are emerging (e.g., LBNL Window 6), and we wish  
to take advantage of it in our simulations.  Two approaches will be  
presented, one geared towards traditional daylight simulation and  
rendering and the other towards annual calculations.  The first  
approach resembles mkillum but without the usual restrictions, since  
BTDFs can represent virtually any complex fenestration type.  The  
second approach requires two passes of rtcontrib, one to account for  
the building exterior, and the other for the interior.  This fully  
separates illumination from geometry and permits time-based  
fenestration controls to be simulated efficiently.  As this  
constitutes work in progress, suggestions will be most appreciated.

10:50-11:20
Daniel Lichtman, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA

?RenderToolbox: A MATLAB Toolkit for Hyperspectral Rendering with  
Radiance and PBRT?
Daniel P. Lichtman, Bei Xiao, David H. Brainard

We describe a set of Matlab software tools, the RenderToolbox, that  
aid in the modeling and rendering of images for use in psychophysical  
experiments. The toolbox, which we are making freely available, has  
several important features. First, it allows the user to model scenes  
in the popular Maya software package and export these into the  
remainder of the rendering pipeline. Second, although the toolbox  
inherits the scene geometry from the Maya modeler, it allows the user  
to associate full spectral reflectance functions and parametric BRDFs  
with each object, and full spectral power distributions with each  
illuminant. The toolbox then parses the scenes and associated  
reflectance/illuminant parameters and passes these to either of two  
renderers. These are Radiance and Physically Based Rendering Tools  
(PBRT). It invokes the renderers on a wavelength-by-wavelength basis  
to produce a hyperspectral image of the scene. The fact that the  
toolbox transparently supports two renderers allows easy comparison  
of their performance. In addition, the toolbox is configured to make  
it easy to re-render the same scene geometry with different choices  
of reflectance/illuminant parameters. Fourth, the package provides  
support for converting the hyperspectral image to standard color  
representations. Finally, the package supports parallel rendering of  
the separate wavelength images if a computer cluster is available.  
Several example scenes are included with the toolbox to demonstrate  
its use and to compare the two renderers? performance. The simplest  
example, a uniformly reflective surface and a single point-light  
source, yields two nearly identical images. Each of these matches an  
analytical prediction based on the light's spectral power  
distribution and surface's reflectance function. A second example  
scene includes a single sphere with uniform reflectance under a  
distant point-light source. Again, images rendered by Radiance and  
PBRT are well-matched to each other and to the directly calculated  
image based on the Ward model of surface reflectance. The close  
agreement of the two renderers with each other and with direct  
calculations for simple scenes provides added confidence that each  
renderer is doing a good job simulating physical light flow.

11:20-12:00
Susan Ubbelohde, Loisos + Ubbelohde Associates, Oakland, CA

?Daylighting in Practice: Radiance and the Design Process?
Loisos + Ubbelohde is a consulting and design firm specializing in  
sustainable architecture.  Our consulting work focuses on advanced  
daylighting design and performance, energy modeling and alternative  
energy sources. In practice, the use of tools such as Radiance and  
physical models is never as direct and linear as theory might  
assume.  Rather, our use of design and evaluation tools is  
continually adapted to the design direction of the project, the  
questions posed by the architects, the tradeoffs and negotiations  
necessary with mechanical, structural, electrical engineers, lighting  
designers and interior designers on the design team, and the goals  
and concerns of the building owners and the requirements of outside  
agencies such as the US Green Building Council. We will present a  
range of recent projects, both consulting projects and design  
projects, discussing our use of modeling tools in the projects.

12:00-1:30 Lunch	

1:30-2:30
Greg Ward, Anyhere Software, Albany, CA

Tutorial: ?Improved Color Rendering with RGB?
Accurate color rendering requires the consideration of many samples  
over the visible spectrum, and advanced rendering tools developed by  
the research community offer multispectral sampling towards this  
goal. However, for practical reasons including efficiency, white  
balance, and data demands, Radiance still employs a simple RGB model  
in its lighting calculations. Applied naively, this can result in  
colors that are qualitatively different from the correct ones. In  
this tutorial, we demonstrate two independent and complementary  
techniques for improving RGB rendering accuracy in Radiance without  
impacting calculation time: spectral prefiltering and color space  
selection. Spectral prefiltering is an obvious but overlooked method  
of preparing input colors for a conventional RGB rendering  
calculation, which achieves exact results for the direct component,  
and very accurate results for the interreflected component when  
compared with full-spectral rendering.  In particular, we demonstrate  
the merits of a particular color space transform that has emerged  
from the research community as the best performer in computing white  
point adaptation under changing illuminants: the Sharp RGB space.

2:30-2:45 Coffee

2:45-3:45 Tutorial, to be announced

End of workshop









Katja Doerschner
University of Minnesota
Psychology Department
218 Elliott Hall
75 East River Road
Minneapolis, MN 55455-0344
Phone:+1 612 626-8551
http://vision.psych.umn.edu/~doerschner




-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: http://radiance-online.org/pipermail/hdri/attachments/20070920/c3343016/attachment-0001.htm
