From karol at mpi-inf.mpg.de  Fri Feb  5 05:34:01 2010
From: karol at mpi-inf.mpg.de (Karol Myszkowski)
Date: Fri Feb  5 05:34:07 2010
Subject: [HDRI] call for papers for Eurographics Rendering Symposium 2010
Message-ID: <4B6C1E49.1040905@mpi-inf.mpg.de>


-------------- next part --------------
Call for Papers

---------------



The Eurographics Symposium on Rendering 2010 will take place in

Saarbr?cken, Germany, from June 28 to June 30, 2010.  This is the 21st

annual event in the series of very successful Eurographics Symposia on

Rendering and Eurographics Workshops on Rendering.



The local organizers are Karol Myszkowski and Elmar Eisemann and the

program chairs are Jason Lawrence and Marc Stamminger.  Up-to-date

information about the conference is available on the official EGSR

2010 web site:



      http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/egsr2010/





Conference Topics

-----------------



Conference topics include (but are not limited to):



- Global illumination

- Reflectance, volumetric scattering and translucency

- Representations of material appearance

- Human perception and error measures

- Rendering hardware and its application

- Computational photography

- Rendering dynamic/animated environments

- Shadows and visibility

- Monte Carlo techniques

- Finite element techniques

- Sampling, filtering, and anti-aliasing

- Texture models, analysis, and synthesis

- Non-photorealistic rendering

- Image-based measurement and rendering

- Sensing for graphics

- Point-based rendering

- Real-time rendering and real-time ray tracing

- Systems and software architecture for rendering

- Virtual/augmented reality and interactive systems

- Audio/sound rendering





The proceedings of EGSR will be a special issue of the journal Computer
Graphics Forum. Because of this there will be a brief second review
cycle for any papers that require changes to be accepted; such papers
will only be accepted after the changes have been confirmed by the
program committee.





Important Dates

---------------



All deadlines are 11:59 p.m., US Eastern Daylight Time (UTC-4).



Abstract submission deadline: Friday, April 9

Paper submission deadline: Tuesday, April 13

Author notification: Friday, May 14

Revisions due: Wednesday, May 26

Final PDF files due for printing: Friday, May 28

Symposium: June 28 - 30



The EGSR review and publication process is very short, and to achieve

this quick turnaround all deadlines must be strictly observed. In

particular, final PDF files for printing must be finished on time.





Keynote Speakers

----------------



George Drettakis, REVES/INRIA Sophia-Antipolis (FR)

Kari Pulli, Nokia Research (US)




International Program Committee

-------------------------------



Program Chairs: Jason Lawrence (US) and Marc Stamminger (DE)



International Program Committee:



   Aseem Agarwala (US)          Marcus Magnor (DE)

   Timo Aila (FI)               Bill Mark (US)

   Thomas Annen (US)            Diego Nehab (US)

   Okan Arikan (US)             Sylvain Paris (US)

   Philippe Bekaert (BE)        Pieter Peers (US)

   Jiri Bittner (CZ)            Kari Pulli (US)

   Volker Blanz (DE)            Eric Reinhard (UK)

   Per Christensen (US)         Holly Rushmeier (US)

   Yiorgos Chrysanthou (CY)     Szymon Rusinkiewicz (US)

   Paolo Cignoni (IT)           Pedro Sander (HK)

   Carsten Dachsbacher (DE)     Mateu Sbert (ES)

   Oliver Deussen (DE)          Pete Shirley (US)

   Craig Donner (US)            Peter-Pike Sloan (US)

   Philip Dutre (BE)            Philipp Slusallek (DE)

   Elmar Eisemann (FR)          Brian Smits (US)

   Raanan Fattal (IL)           Laszlo Szirmay-Kalos (HU)

   Vlastimil Havran (CZ)        Bruce Walter (US)

   Wolfgang Heidrich (CA)       Rui Wang (US)

   Nicolas Holzschuch (FR)      Greg Ward (CA)

   Wojciech Jarosz (CH)         Tim Weyrich (UK)

   Henrik Wann Jensen (US)      Alexander Wilkie (CZ)

   Stefan Jeschke (AT)          Andrew Willmot (US)

   Janne Kontkanen (US)         Chris Wyman (US)

   Samuli Laine (FI)            Kun Zhou (CN)

   Sylvain Lefebvre (FR)        Matthias Zwicker (CH)

   Jaakko Lehtinen (US)         



   

Local Organizing Chairs: Elmar Eisemann (DE) and Karol Myszkowski (DE)





Instructions for Submission

---------------------------



All contributions submitted to the Eurographics Symposium on Rendering

2010 must be original, unpublished work. Any work that has previously

been published or simultaneously been submitted in substantially

similar form to any other conference or journal will be

rejected. Contributions must be written and presented in English.



Only electronic submissions will be accepted. Submitted manuscripts

should be formatted using the Eurographics publication style

proceedings templates, and be anonymized for the double-blind

reviewing process.



Papers should be as long as their content requires, but not

longer. Papers with average length requirements are expected to be 8

formatted pages long, including references and all figures; up to 10

pages will be allowed only where justified. During the review process,

each paper's contribution will be judged in proportion to its length:

a solid contribution described clearly and succinctly is more likely

to be accepted than the same result submitted in a longer paper.



All submissions must be made through the Eurographics Submission and

Review Management system, using the following URL.



  http://egmcp1.cgv.tugraz.at/SRM_SR2010



The submission deadlines will be strictly enforced.  The authors of

each accepted paper need to complete and return the EG Copyright

Assignment Form before the paper can be published.

